docs: add additional payments documentation (#27379)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/onchain-finance/agentic-payments/production-hardening.mdx

  - agent monitoring
  - agent safety
  - transaction retry
goal:
  description: >-
    Reader can implement kill-switch, retry safety, and idempotency patterns for
    production agent payments on Sui
  requires:
    - has_frontmatter:
        - title
        - description
        - keywords
      label: Has required frontmatter fields
    - min_words: 300
      label: Needs more content depth
    - pattern: '```'
      min: 1
      label: Has code examples
    - has_questions: true
      label: Needs questions for AI search visibility
    - has_answer: true
      label: Needs answer summary for AI citation
builder_paths:
  - path_id: agentic-payments
    path_name: Agentic Payments
    step: Production hardening
    stage: Ship
questions:
  - How do I add a kill-switch to an agent on Sui?
  - How do I handle idempotent retries for agent transactions on Sui?
  - What production safety patterns should I use for payment agents on Sui?
answer: >-
  Production payment agents need a kill-switch (both offchain and onchain),
  idempotent retries that prevent double-spends, circuit breakers that halt on
  repeated failures, and structured monitoring to detect anomalies.
---

> An agent that moves money in production needs safety mechanisms beyond correct business logic. This page covers operational patterns that prevent runaway spending and ensure graceful recovery from failures.

Author: ```suggestion
An agent that moves money in production needs safety mechanisms beyond correct business logic, such as operational patterns that prevent runaway spending and ensure graceful recovery from failures.
```

> ## Kill-switch

Author: ```suggestion
## Kill-switches
```

A kill-switch lets you halt all agent operations immediately. Implement two layers: one offchain for instant response, and one onchain as a final safeguard.

### Offchain kill-switch

The agent checks an environment variable or feature flag before every transaction. This is the fastest way to stop an agent because it requires no onchain transaction. For teams using feature flag services (LaunchDarkly, Unleash, or similar), check the flag instead of an environment variable. This lets you toggle the kill-switch without redeploying.

### Onchain kill-switch

> An onchain kill-switch uses a shared `AdminConfig` object that your Move module checks before executing. Even if the offchain kill-switch fails (agent ignoring the flag, stale config), the onchain check prevents execution.

Author: ```suggestion
A kill-switch lets you halt all agent operations immediately. It is recommended to implement two layers: one offchain for instant response, and one onchain as a final safeguard.

In the offchain kill-switch, the agent checks an environment variable or feature flag before every transaction. This is the fastest way to stop an agent because it requires no onchain transaction. 

An onchain kill-switch uses a shared `AdminConfig` object that your Move module checks before executing. Even if the offchain kill-switch fails (for reasons such as the agent ignores the flag or encounters a stale configuration), the onchain check prevents execution.
```

<ImportContent
	source="examples/onchain-finance/production-hardening/sources/admin_config.move"
	mode="code"
	tag="admin_config"
/>

> Your spending mandate's `execute_spend` function calls `admin_config::assert_not_paused(config)` as its first operation. When the admin pauses the system, every agent transaction aborts immediately.

Author: ```suggestion
Your spending mandate's `execute_spend` function calls `admin_config::assert_not_paused(config)` as its first operation. When the admin triggers the kill-switch, every agent transaction aborts immediately.
```

<ImportContent
	source="examples/onchain-finance/production-hardening/sources/snippet_1.move"
	mode="code"
	tag="guarded-spend"
/>

## Retry safety

> Sui transactions are atomic. They either fully succeed or fully revert. But network issues can make the outcome ambiguous: the transaction might have been submitted but you did not receive the response. Retrying blindly risks double-spending.

Author: ```suggestion
Sui transactions are atomic. They either fully succeed or fully revert. However, network conditions can make the outcome ambiguous, such as instances where the transaction might have been submitted but you did not receive the response. Retrying blindly risks double-spending.
```

> ### The safe retry pattern

Author: ```suggestion
To safely retry transactions, follow this pattern:
```

1. **Build and sign once.** Precompute the transaction bytes, signature, and digest before broadcasting.

2. **Claim the idempotency key atomically.** Insert a durable record with a unique constraint. Store the digest, bytes, and signature in the same operation. If another worker already claimed the key, do not submit a second transaction.

3. **Submit and confirm.** Broadcast the stored bytes and signature, then wait for the stored digest.

4. **Reconcile ambiguous outcomes.** If submission or confirmation times out, query the stored digest. Mark it successful if it finalized. Keep an unresolved claim if it is not yet found; do not build and sign a replacement automatically.

> 5. **Enforce value-transfer idempotency onchain.** Offchain claims prevent concurrent workers, but a crash or database restore can still replay business operations. Use Payment Kit registry payments or a custom Move registry to consume the idempotency key atomically with the transfer.

Author: ```suggestion
1. **Build and sign once:** Precompute the transaction bytes, signature, and digest before broadcasting.

2. **Claim the idempotency key atomically:** Insert a durable record with a unique constraint. Store the digest, bytes, and signature in the same operation. If another worker already claimed the key, do not submit a second transaction.

3. **Submit and confirm:** Broadcast the stored bytes and signature, then wait for the stored digest.

4. **Reconcile ambiguous outcomes:** If submission or confirmation times out, query the stored digest. Mark it successful if it finalized. Keep an unresolved claim if it is not yet found. Do not build and sign a replacement automatically.

5. **Enforce value-transfer idempotency onchain:** Offchain claims prevent concurrent workers, but a crash or database restore can still replay business operations. Use Payment Kit registry payments or a custom Move registry to consume the idempotency key atomically with the transfer.
```

### Idempotency keys

> An idempotency key is a client-generated identifier (typically a UUIDv4) that uniquely represents an operation. Atomically claim it in a durable store before submission; a read followed by a write is not safe when workers run concurrently. Retain the claim for at least as long as the business operation can be retried, and reconcile the stored digest instead of creating a replacement transaction.

Author: ```suggestion
An idempotency key is a client-generated identifier (typically a UUIDv4) that uniquely represents an operation. Atomically claim it in a durable store before submission. A read followed by a write is not safe when workers run concurrently. Retain the claim for at least as long as the business operation can be retried, and reconcile the stored digest instead of creating a replacement transaction.
```

#### Onchain idempotency

For onchain idempotency, the [Payment Kit](/onchain-finance/payment-kit) provides built-in duplicate prevention through `PaymentRegistry`. If you are using a custom Move module, you can implement a similar pattern:

<ImportContent
	source="examples/onchain-finance/production-hardening/sources/snippet_2.move"
	mode="code"
	tag="onchain-idempotency"
/>

## Circuit breaker

A circuit breaker halts the agent after a configurable number of consecutive failures. This prevents an agent from burning gas on transactions that consistently fail due to an upstream issue.

## Rate limiting

> Enforce per-agent rate limits to cap how many transactions the agent submits per minute or per hour. This protects against bugs that cause rapid-fire transaction submission.

Author: ```suggestion
{/* needs typescript examples to be complete

## Circuit breaker

A circuit breaker halts the agent after a configurable number of consecutive failures. This prevents an agent from burning gas on transactions that consistently fail due to an upstream issue.

## Rate limiting

Enforce per-agent rate limits to cap how many transactions the agent submits per minute or per hour. This protects against bugs that cause rapid-fire transaction submission.

*/}
```

## Monitoring checklist

Track these metrics for every production agent:

- **Transaction success rate.** Alert if it drops below 95% over a 5-minute window.
- **Gas spend per hour.** Alert if it exceeds the expected budget by more than 20%.
- **Mandate utilization.** Track `remaining_cap` from `SpendExecuted` events. Alert when a mandate is near exhaustion.
- **Circuit breaker state.** Log when the breaker opens and closes.

> - **Latency.** Measure time from transaction submission to confirmation. Sui finalizes in under a second; sustained latency above 5 seconds indicates an RPC or network issue.

Author: ```suggestion
- Transaction success rate. Alert if it drops below 95% over a 5-minute window.
- Gas spend per hour. Alert if it exceeds the expected budget by more than 20%.
- Mandate utilization. Track `remaining_cap` from `SpendExecuted` events. Alert when a mandate is near exhaustion.
{\* - Circuit breaker state. Log when the breaker opens and closes. */}
- Latency. Measure time from transaction submission to confirmation. Sustained latency above 5 seconds indicates an RPC or network issue.
```

Emit structured logs (JSON) for each transaction attempt, including the digest, status, gas used, and any error details.

> ## Testnet to Mainnet checklist

Author: ```suggestion
## Deploying to Mainnet checklist
```

> Before switching from Testnet to Mainnet, verify each item. Testnet and Mainnet are independent networks; nothing carries over automatically.

Author: ```suggestion
Before deploying to Mainnet, verify each item. Devnet, a local network, Testnet, and Mainnet are all independent networks. Nothing carries from one to the other automatically.
```

- [ ] **Package addresses.** Republish all Move packages on Mainnet. Update every hardcoded package ID in your application configuration and SDK calls.
- [ ] **RPC endpoint.** Switch from `https://fullnode.testnet.sui.io:443` to your Mainnet RPC provider. Do not use the public Mainnet endpoint for production traffic. Use a dedicated provider.
- [ ] **Shared object IDs.** Any shared objects your application depends on (`AdminConfig`, `SpendingMandate`, `Registry`) must be redeployed on Mainnet. Update their object IDs in your configuration.
- [ ] **Coin type addresses.** Token type addresses differ between networks. For example, USDC has a different package address on Mainnet than Testnet. Verify all coin type strings.
- [ ] **Gas budgets.** Mainnet gas prices can differ from Testnet. Simulate your transaction on Mainnet before submitting. Use `dryRunTransactionBlock`, GraphQL `simulateTransaction`, or gRPC `TransactionExecutionService.SimulateTransaction` to verify gas budgets are adequate.
- [ ] **Event monitoring.** Set up gRPC event subscriptions or an indexer pipeline to monitor production transactions. At minimum, alert on failed transactions and unexpected balance changes.

> - [ ] **Spending mandate expiry.** Set shorter expiry windows for Mainnet mandates than you used during Testnet development.

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Republish all Move packages on Mainnet. Update every hardcoded package ID in your application configuration and SDK calls.
- [ ] Switch to your Mainnet RPC provider. 
- [ ] Any shared objects your application depends on (`AdminConfig`, `SpendingMandate`, `Registry`) must be redeployed on Mainnet. Update their object IDs in your configuration.
- [ ] Token type addresses differ between networks. For example, USDC has a different package address on Mainnet than Testnet. Verify all coin type strings.
- [ ] Mainnet gas prices can differ from Testnet. Simulate your transaction on Mainnet before submitting. Use `dryRunTransactionBlock`, GraphQL `simulateTransaction`, or gRPC `TransactionExecutionService.SimulateTransaction` to verify gas budgets are adequate.
- [ ] Set up gRPC event subscriptions or an indexer pipeline to monitor production transactions. At minimum, alert on failed transactions and unexpected balance changes.
- [ ] Set shorter expiry windows for Mainnet mandates than you used during development.
```

## Security checklist

Before deploying an agent to production:

- [ ] Agent key is stored in a secrets manager or cloud KMS, not in source code or environment files committed to version control
- [ ] Spending mandate has a short expiry window (hours or days, not months)
- [ ] Recipient allowlist contains only verified addresses
  - [ ] Offchain kill-switch is tested and accessible to on-call operators
  - [ ] Onchain kill-switch (`AdminConfig.paused`) is deployed and the `AdminCap` is secured
- [ ] Idempotency store is durable (survives process restarts)
- [ ] Circuit breaker is configured with sensible thresholds
- [ ] Rate limiter prevents more than N transactions per minute
- [ ] Monitoring alerts are configured for success rate, gas spend, and mandate utilization
- [ ] Key rotation procedure is documented and tested

> - [ ] Backup RPC endpoint is configured for failover

Author: ```suggestion

```
